## Learning Objectives

Be able to build:

- safe and fault tolerant systems

- real-time systems

- distributed systems.

- concurrent systems

- low-power systems

Work in an industry environment:

- Setup a project from scratch

- Write automated tests.

- Use source control.

- Review code.

- Modify existing code base.

## Class format

5 minute case study presentation

20 minute discussion

Remaining time working in the lab.

- Pair programming


## Assignments

- Safety case study with presentation

- Labs

- Project to synthesize concepts

grade distribution for assignment completion.

## Safety case study

Short 5 minute presentation of a case study in critical failure in an embedded system.

- What went wrong and why?

- What could have been done to mitigate?

## Tooling

We will be using PlatformIO to provide toolchain, OS, HAL, and libraries.
- PlatformIO is a high-level orchestration platform. 
	- Helps us install things easier, work will be within VSCode.
We will be using Renode for testing with hardware emulation.

VSCode is the recommended IDE.

Operate on the command line.

## Cheating

We learn good practice by seeing good practice.

We learn good practice by critiquing bad practice.

What is not cheating:
- Reading examples on the internet.
- Working with other students
- Reading other student's code.
- Working with people from outside class.

What is cheating:
- Copying code without understanding it.

## Attendance and Punctuality
This is a lab based course, so you should be here every day. 

Students are expected to complete code reviews within **3 business days** of being assigned. Students should make lab partners to meet outside of class time if required. 
- Be timely in pull requests.

## Specifications Grading:

Specifications Grading (Nielson)

- Goal of assignments is to measure competency and mastery of a topic.
	- We CAN resubmit our code. There aren't any late penalties or deadlines, but don't fall behind. 

- Assignments are graded pass/fail. No partial credit.

- Each assignment will have a detailed specification that is required to be met.

- Unacceptable assignments can be retried

- There are 9 labs, I need to do all of them. 
	- Grad students are required to lead a team, and run a task
	- The team I lead will require me to create a feature or solve a bug

## Code assignment requirements

All code must pass automated tests, written by you.

All code must pass automated tests, provided by us.

All code must be committed to source control using git.

## Assignments: Safety case study with presentation
Each student should give a 5 minute presentation covering a case study of a critical failure within an embedded system. The case could come from any situation, including medical devices, transportation, industrial control, and automation. 

## Assignments: Labs
Parts of the lab
- Pre-lab (on Canvas)
- Coding activities (we'll split up)
- Post-lab
- Code review