Global is a bad thing to use, because we don't know what the state of that will be. We don't have control of that. 

Use functions to break down what we'll actually be using. 


We often pass in a pointer, along with a place to put our answer. 
- this enables us to have complete control of everything, SO we can write better testing. 


# Class 2
There is some project structure stuff not considered in the lab
- We'll go through the exercise as a group, and he'll show us the end result. 
	- We'll pick it up again next Wednesday. 
Lab 1 and Lab 2 will be next week.

In the future, we'll work directly with the hardware, not within the ecosystem. 

We'll do this next week in terms of the hardware. 


## Why would this be hard to test
- We'd need to set up a runner within our test
- There aren't functions within distinct inputs and outputs
### Solutions
- Function to turn on an LED
- Create a test that will test if your function works


Good rule of thumb for ordering parameters in functions
- 1st param is what you're operating on 
- All following things are what you're doing. 

Shadowing: Two definitions with the same name 
- Outer version, and inner version
- This is confusing. While valid, it still sucks. 

Things to look up:
- What is a mask?
- `fg` on a mac

### Function
```c
#include <rtos.h>

#ifndef _LAB1_H_
#define _LAB1_h_
voidi toggle(struct gpio *gpio_port,
			unsigned int *led_is_on,
			const unsigned int mask,
			const unsigned int delay);
```


### Test
```c
delay_ms() //called within function

int last_delayed;
void delay_m(unsigned int delay){
last_delayed = delay;
} // put this so you can "see" into a function within your unit test. 
```
- We can define function conditionally. 
	- We can create a function to update the value of a global integer. 
		- Basically, create a function within your test setup
		- Mocking = You pass in something you control.

## Why did we pull a function out called toggle?
- It was repeated, which isn't a great sign. 
- We need to be able to test functionality.
	- Some of that functionality is a delay.
	- Now, each loop will execute one `toggle()` per iteration. 


# Review
## Status
### We're at Test strategies, 
Technique and Activity
- [x] Find main function, interrupt handlers, and thread entry points ✅ 2024-06-21
- [x] Identify the behavioral code in these contexts. We will refactor this code the next activities. ✅ 2024-06-21

## Done
- [x]  ✅ 2024-06-21

## Left to Do
- [x]  ✅ 2024-06-21