Goal of the lab is to use interprocess signalling

## Data passing structures
### Kernel Services
- Zephyr kernel is the heart of every Zephyr app. The kenel allows you to incorporate only features needed for your application.
	- You can incorporate only features needed for your application. Examples of such systems include: embedded sensor hubs, environmental sensors, simple LED wearable, and store inventory tags.
### Message Queue
- Kernel object that implements a simple messaging queue, allowing threads and ISRs to asynchronously send and receive fixed-size data items
## Message passing
Available data types

| Object        | Bidirectional? | Data structure | Data item size | Data Alignment | ISRs can receive? | ISRs can send? | Overrun handling             |
| ------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | ---------------------------- |
| FIFO          | No             | Queue          | Arbitrary      | 4 B            | Yes               | Yes            | N/A                          |
| LIFO          | No             | Queue          | Arbitrary      | 4 B            | Yes               | Yes            | N/A                          |
| Stack         | No             | Array          | Word           | Word           | Yes               | Yes            | Undefined behavior           |
| Message queue | No             | Ring buffer    | Power of two   | Power of two   | Yes               | Yes            | Pend thread or return -errno |
| Mailbox       | Yes            | Queue          | Arbitrary      | Arbitrary      | No                | No             | N/A                          |
| Pipe          | No             | Ring buffer    | Arbitrary      | Arbitrary      | No                | No             | Pend thread or return -errno | 
Distinction between each structure is:
- the underlying data structure
- what type of data can be stored
- the context in which it can be used
- the behavior if the structure runs out of space.
- functionality available to the caller, for example blocking on receiving an item and atomicit

In this lab we'll use a `queue k_msgq` which is a FIFO structure. Simplifies the needs to manage memory like in the case of `k_fifo`


One advantage of data passing is that the producer side is decoupled from the consumer side. Data flows in one direction, and the producer has little need to know the details of the consumer implementation. With a queue used, the producer doesn't need to wait for the consumer.



# Class Notes
- There are different types of Queues
	- It's up to the implementation
- How many queues do you need for bidirectional communication
	- At least 2, because message queues are not bidirectional
	-  UART (RS-232) is a unidirectional signal requiring a unidirectional signal coming back
		- If we need to communicate with multiple UART devices, you can create a daisy chain. 
	- I2C is a master-slave transaction
- 7 biggest issues with distributed systems


# Progress
## Semaphores Activity 
1. Create a new project.
2. Copy into your project the test_signal.c test, and the signaling.h header.
3. Implement the worker handler and the request functions, matching the signature specified in the header file.
4. Your worker should return the input + five

## Thread Pool Activity
1. Copy into your project the test_fifo.c test.
2. Implement the worker handler and the supervisor functions, matching the signature specified in the header file.
3. Your worker should return the input + five





Request a calculation
- request semaphre
do a calculation (different thread)
- response semaphore
Signal response ready
return to sender (giving up semaphore)