---
company: Varex
type: meeting
tags: archive_deprecated/Varex
---
# Todo

# Notes
## Questions for CEO
- Why did you pick healthcare?
	- How helpful was your early product design work in your future career?
- How helpful was business school?
	- Was the "top ten" of it all that worth it?

## His Background
- Original company sold to oncologist, and Varex sold to manufacturers who sell directly to radiologists
- Expect your career path to evolve

He started as a software engineer
- Did that for 7 or 8 years
- Supervisor --> manager
- People that are “go to” in an organization are the people that know how the customer uses the products
	- How do you get closer to the customer?
- Moving in different functions is much easier in engineering
 - Business School, executive vs full-time
	 - Which one should you do?
	- Each person takes lead on one case
		- Teamwork
- Jumping from engineering to MBA
	- Product management / product strategy
		- Something that might be good to look into. Helps getting you from a product into being in front of a customer. 
- “No one got fired for asking for help”
	- Leverage the organization
	- Make friends and get to know people 
- You won’t be successful in career if you can’t manage your home life
	- Work life rhythm is important
		- Make schedules and figure out what your family needs from you. 
		- Be there when someone expects you to be there. 
- Chaos is a ladder
- SOC
	- Framework of control systems built for investors to have confidence
- Write down what it’s like to start working and how I feel about it. 

