---
type: meeting
tags: archive_deprecated/Varex
---
# Background
- New tool Config Creator
- The old school way of managing things is the XConfigure
	- It doesn't "officially" support modular creator. 
	- Technically still in beta, but that's because Greg didn't do the paperwork. 

## XConfig
- `engineering/XConfigure` is GitBlit project name. 
- Two versions
	- v5
	- v4.2.4
	- Same codebase, 5 is just further ahead than 4.2.4
- The config format is a "kitchen sink" format. 
	- There's no base class conifg with modular configurations afterwards. 

## ConfigCreator
`software/tooele/support/config`
- The only branch I should worry about is `bytes`
	- Create Doxygen documentation about it. 

New ConfigCreator handles modular configuration

# What are we solving?
- We want to make it so that ConfigCreator is the ONLY tool that we'll use
	- XConfigure i
	- If they want to edit the values in it, then they should open XConfiguration
- There are things we can do to add extra GUI features (nice to haves)

## Config 
Company documentation
There's formatting on the file

Modes = modality?
- You have different settings for different things
- Inside of a standard configuration mode, you'll have DAQs and registers
	- Settings for the DAQs
	- Register settings is shared between firmware and software
- Older ones are 12-bit DAQs (or 16-bit DAQ), and 16-bit DAQs. 
	- Sometimes they store extra information on the 4 bits. 
	- To write the value in, you need to know the address of the device
		- Control code
		- Not always true
	- Sometimes its a real 16-bit value.
- There was a time where he was trying to tell something in the file itself. 

System area:
- Common to all modes

Modal area:
- Common to the mode

Corrections are a mode-based setting in modular configs


There's going to be a token that is an integer, and a value that follows it


Starting
XConfigure 4.2.4 and 4.5 installed and understand how they work
- Get an understanding of XConfigure, how it works
- It is nicer to have stuff in a graphical way
- 

Learn how to get ConfigCreator to work similarly to XConfigure
- If it is modular, we may want to pop up a different form or something simliar. 
- Most things are tokens and values. Most are integers, some are strings. 
	- Store the strings with a `null` character. (or equivalent in whatever language this is)

### ConfigCreator is on sharepoint
## `software/configuration` has example configurations
- `.dat` files
- Z panels are new

